and we are now live okay so welcome to
the ipfs weekly meeting and today the
first presentation is by Jim pick Jim
pick would you like to start
sure can everybody hear me okay
so I'm gonna share my screen here oh I'm
sorry
oh no okay
please again sorry okay okay sure
[Music]
okay hopefully everybody can see that so
this is going to be a very quick demo
what I'm working on so far we we have a
service that's been deployed previously
called peer pad it's a peer pad net and
it's a showcase for the work we're doing
in building collaborative apps that are
real time and mutable but we want the
want this these apps to work in the
decentralized manner and I'll work with
ipfs so but this app if I start a new
markdown pad pad here it's a
collaborative app and you can people can
type here is it and then you can share
the URL with other people and if I can
type on the same same document together
and we're the this has been built on top
of a library called pierced our app ship
your infused our app because on github
it's all open source and it's it's a
it's a bunch of layers so so peer pad is
built on top of pierced our app the
pierced our app is built on a collection
of what they call CR DT conflicts
conflict-free replicated data types
which Pedro is Sierra I'm saying his
nickname right he's built a library of
different have leaked / yes Delta Sierra
D teeth
describes right there but they're
basically a bunch of data structures
that many people can write to and work
on at the same time and you'll things
together so you have things like lists
single registers Maps sets and you can
combine them together and build
applications with them and so peer pad
is an example the sort of application
you can build with it this particular
app has a lot of features to it and in
order to just focus on one small aspect
of it I built a small version of it
called peer pad Nano where I stripped
off all the features except in the text
editor so I just have this deployed on
my own personal domain and it's running
off the computer I'm talking on right
now so my demos I'm gonna start it and
so so this is a full peer pad document I
can just type here but what I've done in
order for me to be able to see what's
going on during these underneath the
covers a lot of the complexity is when I
start this document it it uses a number
of IP FS mechanisms such as pub/sub to
find other other nodes and also there's
a custom piece of software called a
WebSockets the live p2p WebSockets star
and so that that's actually running on
my computer as well the plan is to make
that go away and have the IP FS have
that built into ipfs itself with a
rendezvous service but that doesn't
exist yet so that it hasn't there has to
be this one small centralized rendezvous
service it runs so I've created a simple
document here I'm going to use a
different web browser here Firefox and
load it up and take so a moment for it
to
on the other one but you can see up here
these these these represent each web
browser which is a separate peer and
I've just taken the long Pierre ID and
just taking the last three characters
and this is the this is called a vector
clock here so I've typed 44 characters
here basically so if I go here and type
a few more you can see it sinks it cuz
I've been working on some performance
things initially when I started working
on this there were some bugs in the
connection management got rid of those
so it's running a lot faster now now the
latest thing we're trying to hook in is
something we call pinners so right now
these this isn't talking to ipfs the DHT
at all it's not storing this data in
ipfs these are just connected to each
other over WebSockets and the CR IDT's
the libraries to synchronize so what we
want to do is have this saved into ipfs
as we're as we're typing because the
problem is that give if both of these
web pages go offline the documents not
there anymore
and if I'm collaborating with somebody's
in a different time zone you know I
might not be online is the same time as
then we want these to persist so Dirk
Dirk McCormick has done some work on
building a four sister lie feature in
two pierced our app it currently exists
as a pull request and I hooked it into a
service called the planer so it's going
to run that right now yeah it's just
it says no GS program and you can see
there's a third collaborator just
connected this PID is zbe and so that's
all connected in there now so if I start
typing you can see as I type in in5 here
the vector clocking pieces and little
documents are getting saved as I type
and it does
Delta's which are just basically
individual characters being typed and
they're just living those individually
then every once in a while
it's configurable it'll save a full
snapshot the neat thing is I can take
these these content IDs and I can pluck
link them into ipfs 6ly PLD exporter you
can click on it and you can just see
like it they're the objects themselves
or you can't really see what the arc is
they're just a binary blob but you can
see this one I can see it's a delta I
can see the it links to the previous
Delta which is this one you can see
right here this was japw that was that
one so that's pretty neat because you
can just type so so the idea is I'll be
able to deploy these pinners in the
cloud and even if I shut down the pin or
when they start to pin it up again it
will just look into your IP FS grab the
latest data you know it'll make that
available to anybody else's joins and
collaborations that's about all I have
to show on this right now does anybody
have any questions
you
no but it's awesome
super neat so I think the plan is we're
going to do some automated testing and
try to do some scalability testing
simulate like 100 people collaborating
at one time hopefully but like we we
actually want to be able to take the
fold this into the production site here
and use this for collaboration within
protocol labs itself and we can sort of
dog treat it and test it out so
hopefully in a couple weeks I don't know
I don't know how long it's going to take
but we'll have something sort of stable
you
Porcia your audios needed thank you very
much Jim um does anyone have a question
before we move on
um okay I don't see any hand so let's
continue and the next presentation is by
I believe David Dahl he's going to show
us the ipfs um proof hello can you hear
me okay
yes great hi I've been playing something
for a while and it's just fascinated by
IKEA fests and I one day I decided to
think about how could I build sort of
what key basis built just the social
proof part of key base just using IP FS
so let me share my screen and so it's
it's all on github here at IBM IP best
social proof this is a side project I'm
working on so when you log into law you
don't log in but you you pull this up
locally there's just a node server
running of course and it gives you your
identity which is of course just your
public/private key pair and you can give
yourself a handle and then you've got
your your public key and I'm using block
E's for avatars and you can find out who
your peers are and you can go ahead and
look at your peers by examining the
public key and for instance I've looked
at myself it's looked at the proof that
I published here on the gist
I only support gist's right now I'm
gonna hopefully support any kind of web
resource DNS record etc again modeling
this after key base and so here's a you
know I've got to approve here and I'm
currently just building in the sort of
real-time remote fetching of these
proofs and validation right now the
peers kind of just collect them and you
know pass them to each other via
broadcasts on the pub/sub but the ideal
position would be we're just like key
base here real time validating them when
you
join the network so anyway that's kind
of what this looks like now there's a
little log in here you can create a
proof pretty easily or look at your
existing proofs and add the URL for
where you're storing it it also stores
it in ipfs of course and creating is
really simple you could just username in
service and it generates a proof and
then of course I sort of building this
just sort of as this experiment you know
try to try to build that key based
experience for validating people but
also I think this might be a good
jumping-off point to be able to build
other applications on top of this and it
just supports you know some really basic
just user identity you know from the
from the from the get-go so anyway
that's kind of what I've been working on
and thank you for all your hard work I'm
really enjoying working with with ipfs
it's a lot of fun yeah great any
questions for David question so for the
proofs to do if I'm building application
do I have to trust your pre-service no
the whole idea I think behind what
key-based did which is really cool is
people can put their proofs on reddit on
github and they can publish them places
where an existing authentication
mechanism is required so when you pull
up my profile or look at examine my
public key you're gonna get URLs for
where I've published my proofs now you
can click it that click on them and
examine them manually just as a you know
double check but this system will I just
got a PR and recently that will just
pull them down and validate them for you
of course just it's a signature over the
you know the statement and you know
where it's published so hopefully it's
trustless like all good systems
so another another question um how how
do you find other users like how can you
do search so there's nothing like that
implemented and that's of course
something that we want to build into
this I'm actually working with someone
from origin protocol as well the origin
team is helping me where sidenote or
we're rebuilding the UI in the Chu
framework so it's very lightweight and
tiny but in the meantime yeah there's no
search for for users there's basically a
broadcast that happens on pub/sub and
there's local pouch TBS so I'm imagining
you know either storing like people you
discover in some extra table that you
can kind of you know run through at some
point in the future to remind yourself
who you ran into on your peer network
but also I was thinking of playing with
orbit DB to collect you know sort of
like who's on the network and and that
kind of thing and then of course the one
of the things I'm really excited about
is I want to build it so that you as a
user you generate new channels based on
topics like reddit or something and so
you have these subs that people can
subscribe to and and perhaps even use CR
DTS to to build like Reddit on top of
this as well and do you have a do you
have any thoughts about getting around
using this to help get around the issues
with certificate authorities because key
base is the big thing is that you're
getting authenticated with all these
websites but all of the websites all
rely on CAS to make sure everything
checks out yeah that's that's an
excellent question that is sort of that
is the ten million dollar question I
don't know I haven't thought too much
about that yet I think it's funny too
because I know that key base is they're
booting up off of the idea that well at
some point there will be something and
I'm imagining an integration with file
coin to you know use the consensus of
of a chain to establish your identity
like in a more formal manner but for now
I'm just having so much fun just dealing
with ipfs that I'm not even thinking
about block teens right now yet either
so maybe to my to my chagrin they should
be looking into other things as well
thanks thank you hey no questions later
hands all right then um thank
very much David before we end does
anyone have any announcements before we
log off
going once going twice I guess it's the
nice thing I I'm trying to collect some
people to talk about hot sharing in ipfx
and putting together some utilities to
make sharing easier which may include
things like the the Identity Management
thing we just saw so if if you are
interested give me a pen
- I mean do you mean sharing files
sharing in the most general sense
yeah just utilities right that will help
you move around your move around your
keys to the right people and ping people
to let them know that there has been a
file shared with you right I'm
interested in that I'm also very
interested in that and have a lot of
ideas so I don't know I'll try to find
you via I'll get them wet where should
we go and that's a great question I'm
just gonna throw a thing in this in the
city hierarchy channel now and I'll
figure out from there okay we have a
nascent repository for shared by p FS
toyo which is an app that wants to be
the good demonstration of sharing Yop
events so it might might be wise to get
there okay I will adapt to the chair
this would not include like actual
identity like attempting to do you know
authentication and private data or this
is just really a sharing I want to
collect information identity is a really
hard problem likely whatever sharing you
do you're going to want to plug various
identity things into it which will
change over time um but yeah right now
I'm just trying to collect the people
and and take it from there okay request
to view the meetings that are upcoming
yep um so before I do that I'm actually
going to put in David's social proof of
concept give me a moment
so here's a github repo for that and in
terms of meetings future meetings I have
a spreadsheet here we already have one
person signed up for next Monday so if
you're planning something um I have a
spreadsheet for next week and a week
after that gives you more than a week to
prepare and to put down what you would
like to present during the ipfs monthly
meeting awesome so that's it from me I
don't have any other announcements do I
see any hands
No awesome great thank you everyone and
I'll see you next week Oh indeed and
there will be a joyful fest released
this week there's currently an RC that
will hopefully hit this later on today
uh-oh we should test that coolness
Thanks enhance
nope alright I'll see everyone next week
good Monday take care bye-bye